# DRAFT

# ROS 2 Pre-alpha release (Aug/Sep 2015)

Welcome to the first release of ROS 2 software.  We hope that you try it
out and provide feedback.

## Contacting us

Discussions about ROS 2 development and plans are happening on the
[sig-ng-ros (Special Interest Group on Next-Generation ROS) mailing list]
(https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups#!forum/ros-sig-ng-ros).  Join
us there and participate in the conversation.

If you identify bugs or feature requests, feel free to open an issue in the
appropriate repository tracker.  If it's not clear which tracker to use for
a particular issue, file it in the [ros2/ros2
repository](https://github.com/ros2/ros2/issues) and we'll have a look at
it.  Pull requests are welcome for any of the ros2 repositories!

## Background

As explained in a [design
article](http://design.ros2.org/articles/why_ros2.html), we are engaged in
the development of a new major version of ROS, called "ROS 2." While the
underlying concepts (e.g., publish / subscribe messaging) and goals (e.g.,
flexibility and reusability) are the same as for ROS 1, we are taking this
opportunity to make substantial changes to the system, including changing
some of the core APIs.  For a deeper treatment of those changes and their
rationale, consult the other [ROS 2 design
articles](http://design.ros.org).

## Status of the code

In August / September 2015, we are releasing a *pre-alpha* release of ROS
2, code-named **NAME-TBD**.  Our primary goal with this release is to give
you the opportunity to understand how ROS 2 works, in particular how it
differs from ROS 1.  To that end, we built a set of [demos](Tutorials) that
show some of the key features of ROS 2.  We encourage you to try out those
demos, look at the code that implements them, and provide feedback.  We're
especially interested to know how well (or poorly) we're addressing use
cases that are important to you.



